[ACM-7382]: Adding instructions to create a hosted cluster from the console (#5575)
open-cluster-management/rhacm-docs: clusters/hosted_control_planes/hosted_create_bare_metal.adoc

redhat-operators-catalog-d66b5c965-qwhn7         1/1     Running   0          2m51s
----

[#hosted-create-bare-metal-console]
== Creating a hosted cluster on bare metal by using the console

. Open the {ocp-short} web console and log in by entering your administrator credentials. For instructions to open the console, see link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/openshift_container_platform/4.14/html/web_console/web-console[Accessing the web console] in the {ocp-short} documentation.

. In the console header, ensure that **All Clusters** is selected.

. Click **Infrastructure > Clusters**.

. Click **Create cluster > Host inventory > Hosted control plane**.

+
The **Create cluster** page is displayed.

> . On the **Create cluster** page, follow the prompts to enter details about the cluster, node pools, networking, and automation.

Reviewer: Do we want to go into details about each screen and field?

Author: @avishayt Good question. I was hoping that you and @zanetworker might have an opinion on this :) 

I'd assume/hope that the UI is intuitive enough that we don't need to explain each screen and field, but if we know that there are areas where people might struggle, it makes sense to me to document those areas (at least until the UI can be improved). 

Do we have user feedback about any screens or fields that we need to provide more guidance about in the docs?

Reviewer 2: I understood Avishay's question as a hint to add more details (I could be wrong). I would encourage more details whenever possible, at least for the non-obvious areas. Ideally the UX is self-descriptive, but there are times as a user I would have appreciated the "extra" detail that would save me 5 minutes especially when getting started. 

>Do we have user feedback about any screens or fields that we need to provide more guidance about in the docs?

We do have a couple, will forward to you on slack Laura :)

Reviewer: It wasn't a hint - I would have been more direct :)
If it's self-explanatory, then probably nobody will read it, and we can save the resources for writing and maintaining docs for it.  If users might get stuck there, then it's worth investing in it.

Author: I'm reading through some user feedback that Adel sent me related to creating a hosted cluster with the console. It looks like we'll need to add some details in the docs about the pull secret, the namespace on the Node pools page, and the Networking page. I will likely have questions soon about what exactly we want to say about those screens and fields :)

Reviewer: Happy to answer any questions

Author: Thanks @avishayt! I noted my questions in this Google Doc: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1sNtpyU3YG2ryAISw7QdHAqUEo4m44P97HSuItXMrX2U/edit?usp=sharing, which is based on a document that Adel shared with me that had user feedback about the console. 

cc @zanetworker

Author: @avishayt Thanks so much for your feedback in the Google Doc. Based on the information that you provided, I added some tips in the note starting on line 89. PTAL when you can and let me know what you think. cc @zanetworker

. In the console header, ensure that **All Clusters** is selected.

. Click **Infrastructure -> Clusters**.

. Click **Create cluster -> Host inventory -> Hosted control plane**.

+
The **Create cluster** page is displayed.

. On the **Create cluster** page, follow the prompts to enter details about the cluster, node pools, networking, and automation.

+
*Note:* As you enter details about the cluster, you might find the following tips useful:

** If you want to use predefined values to automatically populate fields in the console, you can create a host inventory credential. For more information, see _Creating a credential for an on-premises environment_.

** On the *Cluster details* page, the pull secret is your {ocp-short} pull secret that you use to access {ocp-short} resources. If you selected a host inventory credential, the pull secret is automatically populated.

** On the *Node pools* page, the namespace contains the hosts for the node pool. If you created a host inventory by using the console, the console creates a dedicated namespace.

> ** On the *Networking* page, you select an API server publishing strategy. The API server for the hosted cluster is exposed as a service of the `NodePort` type. A DNS entry must exist for the `api.${HOSTED_CLUSTER_NAME}.${BASEDOMAIN}` setting that points to the destination where the API server can be reached. This entry can be a record that points to one of the nodes in the management cluster or a record that points to a load balancer that redirects incoming traffic to the Ingress pods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** On the *Networking* page, you select an API server publishing strategy. The API server for the hosted cluster can be exposed either using an existing load balancer or as a service of the `NodePort` type. A DNS entry must exist for the `api.${HOSTED_CLUSTER_NAME}.${BASEDOMAIN}` setting that points to the destination where the API server can be reached. This entry can be a record that points to one of the nodes in the management cluster or a record that points to a load balancer that redirects incoming traffic to the Ingress pods.
```
